+++
name="Enhancing Fungi-based Composite Materials With Computational Design And Robotic Fabrication"
headerImg="workshop8.jpg"
leaders="""
- **Jonathan Dessi-Olive** ([Assistant Professor, Department of Architecture, Kansas State University](www.jdovaults.com))
- **Omid Oliyan** ([Senior Computational Designer, Silman](https://www.silman.com/)) 
- **Ali Seyedahmadian** (Senior Design Engineer, Eventscape A+D)
  """
keywords=["Bio-materials", "smart composites", "mycelium", "computational design", "robotic fabrication"]

Software=["Participants will use a web-based shape generation tool that demonstrates the basic functions of the design and fabrication framework proposed by the workshop. Here is the list of the software which will be used for the proposed computational workflow. Design: Rhino, Grasshopper, Licenses will be provided by Silman Analysis and interoperability: Karamba (educational), SAP2000 and Geometry Gym, Licenses will be provided by Silman Robotic and CNC software: Licenses will be provided by Eventscape"] 

prerequisites= ["A kit of materials and instructions will be sent to the participants prior to the workshop. The content of this kit provides all of the raw materials they need for the proposed experimentations with mycelium composites during the workshop. We may have restrictions for shipping internationally, in which case we try to work with the participants to have it provided locally if available.  There is no required knowledge of the material or the fabrication process. However, for more information additional links with information about the material and the fabrication process will be shared by the workshop organizers prior to the workshop. No coding knowledge is required, however familiarity with Rhino and Grasshopper is encouraged. Custom software will be shared with the audience via a web-based app. No AR or robotic knowledge is required. However, the participants need to have access to a smart phone for the AR models."]

tentative_workshop_schedule= ["09.11.2021: 10:00 - 18:00 EST", "09.12.2021: 10:00 - 18:00 EST"]

+++

**Abstract**: This workshop explores the capacities of computational systems to develop an integrative design to fabrication workflow for fungi-based materials. “Myco-materials” are composites made by entangling mushroom mycelium around agricultural or forestry wastes such as hemp or saw dust. As the need for zero-waste materials increases, myco-materials continue to garner attention from engineers, building scientists, and designers. Recently, imaginative architecture-scale structures made with myco-materials have used fabrication techniques canonically familiar to architecture including: modular bricks, custom molded blocks, fabric formed structures, and robotic printing. This workshop seeks to expand upon the existing constructive paradigms by asking: in the realization of smarter and stronger mycelium composite structures, what are the cooperative logics that have yet to be discovered between fungal growth, computational design, and digital fabrication? Participants will investigate the capacities of computational design and mixed reality (MR) through at-home experiments; gaining experience with the craft of growing mycelium. MR-guided weaving, winding, and knotting will be used to inform the design and production of flexible reinforcement lattices used to strengthen the surface and inner matrix of mycelium composites. Hand-work by the participants will inform robotic procedures to be demonstrated by the organizers through the fabrication of a prototype henceforth.


**Description**: One of the most significant challenges of using mycelium in large-scale structural applications, is that it is an inherently weak material. Depending on the substrate and the amount of compaction that is possible, most products made of a uniform composite matrix have a strength no more than high-density foam. Preliminary experiments with myco-materials by the organizers have revealed that diversifying the matrix through strategic sizing and orienting of agricultural strands and natural fibers can increase the strength of myco-materials both in their intermediary growth phase and their final inert phase. Such performative benefits would drastically expand the range of possible real-world applications of myco-material composites. The focus of this workshop is on the material itself, and how computational design tools and fabrication technologies will be essential to facilitate the success of mycelium materials in a future of sustainable building materials. 

Participants will be invited to join these exciting first steps into a wide open field of research that seeks to develop structural resistance in mycelium composite materials through computational structural design, mixed reality, and robotic fabrication procedures. A series of introductory talks by the workshop organizers will provide the necessary background on materials, design tools, and fabrication methods. A custom web-based design tool developed by the organizers will be introduced that lets the participants explore internal reinforcing patterns for their own designs. Each participant will receive a kit that includes materials needed to fabricate their reinforcing lattices, using a combination of smartphone-based mixed reality and traditional craft techniques including weaving, knotting, and winding. Similar techniques creating reinforcement with robotic fabrication will be demonstrated by the organizers, followed by a panel discussion to conclude the workshop. Based on their ongoing research and the work accomplished during the workshop, the organizers intend to apply these robotic techniques toward a large-scale prototype, which will be shared during the main conference. 

**Important Note**: this workshop will require the use of a custom kit of materials/tools shipped by the instructors. Additional lead time and arrangements might be necessary to receive these on time. If you live outside the continental U.S. and believe you may have difficulties receiving the kit, please reach out to the instructors directly before enrolling in this workshop, or consider choosing a different one. ACADIA assumes no responsibility for late/lost kits, and cannot reimburse participants under these circumstances.